---
title: DA-100 Study Guide
layout: single
permalink: /da-100/
---

Welcome to my DA-100 exam prep page, a work in progress.

If you're looking for either a quick method to pass the exam or documentation, this isn't it. Instead, what follows are my general thoughts on the exam topics, such as reasons why one should know each item, why it's useful, etc., as well as suggested exercises. The reasoning for both of these is simple. The docs site is quite good, but sometimes lacks in these areas. 

So if you’re looking for a shortcut, I don’t think I’ll be much help. This is the long way. This involves learning the material to the point where you can not just pass the exam, but go work with customers. This is not a study guide, as much as it is a lifestyle.

Enjoy.
<h1>Prepare the data</h1>
<h2>Get data from different data sources</h2>

- [Identify and connect to a data source](/da-100/connect)
- [Change data source settings](/da-100/change_data_source_settings/)
- [Select a shared dataset or create a local dataset"](/da-100/dataset_shared_or_local/)
- [select a storage mode](/da-100/select_a_storage_mode/)
- [choose an appropriate query type](/da-100/query_type/)
- [Identify query performance issues](/da-100/query_performance/)
- [Use the Common Data Service (CDS)](/da-100/cds/)
- Use Parameters

## [Profile the data](/da-100/profile_data/)
- Identify data anomalies
- Examine data structures
- Interrogate column properties
- Interrogate data statistics

## [Clean, transform, and load the data](/da-100/clean_transform_and_load/)
- resolve inconsistencies, unexpected or null values, and data quality issues
- [Apply user-friendly value replacements](/da-100/replace/)
- [Identify and create appropriate keys for joins](/da-100/join_keys/)
- [Evaluate and transform column data types ](/da-100/transform_data_types/)
- [Apply data shape transformations to table structures](/da-100/data_shape_transformations/)
- [Combine queries](/da-100/combine_queries/)
- apply user-friendly naming conventions to columns and queries 
- [leverage Advanced Editor to modify Power Query M code](/da-100/power_query_m/)
- configure data loading 
- resolve data import errors

<h1>Model the Data</h1>
<h2>Design a data model</h2>
- [define the tables](/da-100/define_tables/)
- [configure table and column properties](/da-100/table_properties/)
- define quick measures
- flatten out a parent-child hierarchy
- define role-playing dimensions
- define a relationship's cardinality and cross-filter direction
- design the data model to meet performance requirements
- resolve many-to-many relationships
- create a common date table
- define the appropriate level of data granularity
